<h2>Chapter One</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Chapter one examines how the prevailing view of motivation is becoming incompatible with many aspects of contemporary business and life.<br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
Lakhani and Wolf uncovered a range of motives, but they found "that enjoyment-based intrinsic motivation, namely how creative a person feels when working on the project, is the strongest and most pervasive driver."<br />
<br/>
<u>Question</u><br/>
The second were "motivators" - things like enjoyment of the work itself, genuine achieve, and personal growth.  These internal desires were what really boosted both satisfaction and performance and were where managers ought to fucs their attention.
<br/>

<h2>Chapter Two</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Rewarding does not incentivize people to perform well; in fact, it makes things perform worse, can cause even more negative behaviors (overcharging to meet sales quotas, etc.), start addictions, and deter long-term goals. Also negative reinforcement does not stop people from doing their tasks as well as thought. <br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
From this episode, Twain extracts a key motivational principle, namely "that Work consists of whatever a body is OBLIDGED to do, and that Play consists of whatever a body is not obliged to do."<br />
<br/>
<u>Question</u><br/>
If there are so many studies about how rewards diminish intrinsic motivation, why do so many companies still use it?


<h2>Chapter Two A</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Sometimes the carrots-and-sticks method can work in instances when the task is routine and doens't involve much creativity, but only if prefaced with acknowledgment behind the task and if the rewrad is given unannounced and after the task is completed <br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
But "as long as the task involved only mechanical skill, bonuses worked as they would be expected: the higher the pay, the better the performance." <br/ >
<br />
<u>Question</u><br/>
If carrot-and-stick works in some instances, wouldn't that create the addiction for businesses to keep going that route?  How do you prevent that addiction?

<h2>Chapter Three</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Companies should start shifting to a type I behavior, which will promote better motivation since it shifts away from external rewards.  For it to be successul, focus needs to be on autonomy, master, and purpose<br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
Human beings have an innate inner drive to be autonomous, self-determined, and connected to one another.  And when that drive is liberated, people achieve more and live richer lives. <br/>
<br />
<u>Question</u><br/>
If type I behavior is the natural state amongst all humans, how come that didn't evolve to be the first way of motivating employees.

<h2>Chapter Four</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Businesses need to give employees autonomy and self direction so that employees can produce better work and be better motivated.  For it to be succesful, it needs to focus on task, time, technique, and team<br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
We should focus on what people get done, not how many hours or days worked.<br />
<br/>
<u>Question</u><br/>
Does the size of the company affect if type I behavior is even possible.  I would think that at some point, there needs to be some type of management.

<h2>Chapter Five</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
Mastery and the pursuit of getting better at something is vital to type I behavior and leads to engagement, not compliance.  The chapter also discusses the importance of flow and how mastery is a mindset, a pain, and an asymptote.<br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
In flow, people lived so deeply in the moment, and felt so utterly in control, that their sense of time, place, and even self melted away.  They were autonomous, of course.  But more than that, they were engaged.<br />
<br />
<u>Question</u><br/>
It seems odd that he says compliance is only good for physical survival, but as humans, isn't that the natural state?, biologically speaking?  

<h2>Chapter Six</h2>

<u>Summary</u><br/>
The idea of somethign larger than oneself is the last pillar of type I behavior, and it's observed through goals (using it as a catalyst), words (focusing on overall picture and team mentality), and policies.<br/>
<br />
<u>Quote</u><br/>
Failing to understand this conundrum -- that satisfaction depends not melrely on having goals, but on having the right goals -- can lead sensible people down self-destructive paths.<br />
<br/>
<u>Question</u><br/>
This seems really idealistic and I can't imagine America being able to transfer to this type of behavior.