# Chapter 1

This chapter was about project roles. The takeaway here is that each role must
be clearly defined for a product.

# Chapter 2

The key takeaway is that when your product and project manager is the same
person, you're doing it wrong.

# Chapter 3

"This is more due to the nature of product management, which is all about
discovering a product that is valuable, useable and feasible; versus project
management, which is all about executing to deliver that product."

# Chapter 4

I thought it was amazing how well defined the user interaction roles were
defined. At my previous company, design was always brushed aside and that
caused a lot of product aspects to be flawed.

# Chapter 5 

"You need to pay your taxes and remember to dedicate at least 20%to headroom"

# Chapter 6

"But there are many people that want to be able to work 40 hours a week and
--most importantly-- leave their work problems at the office when the go home
at the end of the day. This unfortunately is not the life of a successful
product manager."

# Chapter 7 

I wonder what LivingSocials net promoter score is.

# Chapter 8 

I thought it was very interesting that the author use the pronoun "she" instead
of the general "they" for the user interaction designer.  Are user interaction 
designers primarily female? 

# Chapter 9

"The only thing that really matters for you company is shipping products."

# Chapter 10

It's interesting because I read this entire chapter thinking that they were
talking about qualities of a software engineer. I think that small teams
produce people that need to have similiar qualities.

# Chapter 11

Product opportunities exist if you have a plan on how to look for them,
defining them, and coming up with metrics proving the opportunity is sound.

# Chapter 12

Product discovery at companies sound like mini-startups. They figure out what
needs to be built, build it, and release. If it's great they make money. If not
they move on. In the actual startup world the companies fail. Crazy.

# Chapter 13 

Product principles are a lot like core values of a company. Everyone needs to
be on board with the values of a company or the company will not move forward.
The same is true of products.

# Chapter 14

Meetings for the most part suck unless it's directed and has a directed scope.

# Chapter 15

Early adoption of your product is a great indicator that you are solving a
problem worth solving. If customers aren't interested, perhaps you need to take
another look at the product you're building.

# Chapter 16

Users provide valuable information, however they aren't the ones to provide you
with enough information to drive your product's direction. Users don't know
what they want because they don't know all of their options.

# Chapter 17

Creating user personas are important in picking which features are important
and worth incorporating into a release. They should be integrated early in the
process.

# Chapter 18

Building a prototype is much better than a spec doc because it provides
everyone with a working product whose functionality can be fleshed out.
It also reduces time to market by clearly defining what a product should do.

# Chapter 19

User interaction design _must_ happen before implementation because once
implementation begins, it will be extremely hard to change the product.

# Chapter 20

Creating a minimal product prototype removes the need to cut features because
if you cut anything else out of the product, the product will not be usable by
customers. If you can cut a feature, you don't have a minimal product. This
fixes the problem of feature cut or project deadline slip since you don't have
any features to cut.

# Chapter 21

There are three types of product testing that happen before the product is
built: feasibility, usability and value. Feasibility is if the product can be
built, usability is how users use your product, and value is if your product is
valuable to customers.

# Chapter 22

"Testing yuor ideas with real users is probably the single most important
acitivity in your job as product manager."

# Chapter 23

It's important to understand what metrics are important to your product's
success, and strive towards them regardless of subjective information.
Feasibility

# Chapter 24

Gentle deployment is the process of releasing changes to users in such a way as
to ease the disruption of their current workflow. Users don't like change so it
must be done with care.

# Chapter 25

One of the most important software phases is right after product launch.
Quickly identifying issues highlighted by specific metrics and fixing them
provides a large return on investment.

# Chapter 26

The author states that agile methodolgies were not intended for product
software companies. They were intended for custom software shops where the
customer is the person hiring the contractor. I always thought that product and
custom software was the same.

# Chapter 27

Waterfall methodologies are flawed, but sometimes it is deeply entrenched in an
organizations workflow. To avoid failure, you must emphasize product discovery
during the design and requirements phases.

# Chapter 28 

"We're such an egineering-driven industry that we just naturally start there.
Any startup has to realize that everything starts with the right product."

# Chapter 29

"And when you inject the feeling of ownership that comes from thinking up the
ideas yourselves, the ideas are pursued with more passion and creativity."

# Chapter 30

Working in a large organization means communication, getting shit done, and
building relationships are key factors in your success.

# Chapter 31 

"They [Apple] understand better than anyone else the role that emotion plays in
getting consumers to crave, buy and love a product."

# Chapter 32

"It is natural for any customer to want to describe their problem in terms of
the solution they can envision rather than the underlying problem themselves."
- One of the key problems with "specials". If you make their solution, it might
not be the reason for their issue.

# Chapter 33

New product opportunities exist even in mature markets. Wherever there is a
pain, there is an opportunity to make a product that improves peoples lives.

# Chapter 34

Emotions play a key role in a successful product. When you understand the
emotions behind peoples purchases you can win. You also are able to identify
who the competition by discovering who is catering to your potential customers.

# Chapter 35

Product managers creating great products focus on peoples emotions, primarily
anger, exasperation, frustration. It is in these emotions that a need can be
found that drive people to buy products that improve their lives. 

This chapter was interesting because it feels like our emotions are exploited
to create great products.

# Chapter 36

There is a difference between visual and interaction designers. I thought that
designers were able to do both.

# Chapter 37

Consumer internet service products sounds addiciting. I want to work on
similar products.

# Chapter 38 

Enterprise software is often sold to businesses rather than consumers. Unlike 
consumer software, there is no enthusiasm for enterprise software. Enterprise
software is hard to use, buggy, and difficult to upgrade. There is a potential
opportunity here to raise the bar and create better enterprise products.

# Chapter 39

"It is okay for the developers to work a little harder if the application is
something end-users like and use, versus making the developers happy but nobody
wants the end result."

# Chapter 40

This is a summary chapter of everything talked about in the book.

# Chapter 41

Product managers need to be obsessed about their product and worry about the
validitiy of their product, who is going to use their product, and what the
competition is doing. Thinking about the questions in this chapter is critical. 
