<h1>Chapter 1</h1>
He discusses the different roles of a good team for developing software and the ratio for each role. <br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 2</h1>
He discusses the difference between a product manager and product marketer; he also shows that market-driven development is bad since they don't know how to communicate on bulding a good product, that two people/one role is bad since no one will own the prodcut, and that one person/two roles is bad since very few people can do both.  The way out is to find someone who can guide a good product<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 3</h1>
Product and project managers need to be different due to the fact that Internet software needs to be released often, so a project manager would look at the overall program and the product manager would have to look at each release.  A good project manager is someone who is data driven, urgen, clear thinkers, decisive, prudent, and have a good attitude<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 4</h1>
He discusses the importance of having a good UX and that a good team involves a visual designer, interaction, usability, and prototyping.  He notes that interaction design is important to keep in-house.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 5</h1>
I really liked the idea of having a dedicated team (20%) to keep looking at the infrastructure.  Being first on the production team here and asking for features quickly and now being in HA, I get that time isn't always available for new features. <br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 6</h1>
"I tell them that often the great product managers they're looking for are already in their organization, hiding under a differnet title -- maybe a software engineer, user experience designer, or a Systems Engineer (SE), just waiting to be discovered."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 7</h1>
Is there not a way to have more than one product manager on a product?  This may help limit failures.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 8</h1>
"Never tell people how to do things.  Tell them what to do, and they will surprise you with their integrity"<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 9</h1>
A=I'm not sure if I'm a fan of internal poaching.  Doens't that create negativity culturally in the workplace because people may get jealous?  I think people should seek jobs that they want and then the team can decide if it's a good fit.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 10</h1>
Ten tips for managing up: MEasure and plan for churn, communication style and frequency, pre-mreeting work, recommendations, using your manager, doing homework, short emails, using data and facts, evangalize, and low-maintenance employees.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 11</h1>
Always assess the value proposition (the problem to be solved) and go make a friend in finance.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 12</h1>
He discusses the importance of having a creative phase for finding the right product, then once that's established, having to switch gears and get thigns into production and released on time.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 13</h1>
"Another benefit I have found is that more than any other document, a set of product principles can bring together the product team -- especially product managemet, user experience deisgn, engineering, and marketing -- and get the team on the same page."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 14</h1>
The pupose of the product council is to set the strategic product direction, allocate product resources and investments, and provide a level of oversight of the company's product efforts.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 15</h1>
Always have a solid set of reference customers (charter user program) to get an idea of what the users want.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 16</h1>
The main tools for market research are surveys, site analytics, site visits, data mining, personas, competitive analysis, and usability testing.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 17</h1>
Personas are good for product managers because they show what's important, prevents managers thinking they are the customer, prioritizing users, describing the product, and making a unified vision.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 18</h1>
Product specs must provide user experience, represent software behavior, appease consumer specs, refelct latest decisions, and diminish ambiguity (high-fidelity prototype)<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 19</h1>
UX and design should not be done at the same time due to limiting UX design once implementation starts, delays in UX feedback, lack of a real prototype, inability to break UX design into pieces and time.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 20</h1>
"First, the job of the product manager, working iwth his designer, is to come up with a high-fidelity prototype with the <i>minimial funcationality necessary</i> to meet the business objectives, yet with a user experience that users can figure out how to use -- and actually want to use."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 21</h1>
The three differnet types of product validation needed are feasibility testing, usability testing, and value testing.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 22</h1>
"...I will also say that testing your ideas with real users is probably the single most important activity in your job as product manager."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 23</h1>
"Remember that it's not about what a particular customer thinks is important to add, or the result of a survey, or a focus group.  What matters is what actually moves the needle on the metrics you are driving towards."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 24</h1>
"The solution to user abuse isn't to prevent change, it's to be smart about deploying change."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 25</h1>
Product managers need to include the time after a product release to see if there are any quick fixes that they need to address (rapid response)<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 26</h1>
For successful agile methods, a prodcut manager must own the product, must plan, be two steps ahead of other team to prepare for any changes, break work into small chunks to fit minimal product, let engineers break up sprints, have daily meetings with interaction designers, not to luanch every spring, demo at every sprint, and provide agile training.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 27</h1>
Is there a way to persuade upper management to switch to agile methods?  Why is the waterfall method still used?<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 28</h1>
"The founder hires a product manager, an interaction designer, and a prototyper.  Sometimes the designer can also serve as prototype, and someitmes the founder can serve as the product manager, but one way or another, you have these three functions lined up - product management, interaction design, and prototyping - and the team starts a process of very rapid product discovery.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 29</h1>
To innovate in a large company, employ the 20% rule, chasing ideas under the radar (skunk works), observing products with users to see improvement, thinking about UX, and through acquisitions.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 30</h1>
"So first and foremost, you need to realize that you will ahve to deal head-on with the many mechanisms that large companies put in place ot protect what they have accumulated."<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 31</h1>
The lessons learned form Apple are that hardware serves software, software serves user experience, and user experience serves emotion.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 32</h1>
One of the surest ways to derail a product comapny is to confuse customer requirements with product requirements.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 33</h1>
Two methods to have a winning product in a mature market are understanding tager market and where product falls short and keeping up with technologies.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 34</h1>
Try to figure out what emotion is invoked when testing a product, and make sure that it is inline with product spec.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 35</h1>
"Because angry people dictate the future of technology."  Note: stay away from lovers!<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 36</h1>
Visual design is important in invoking emotion.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 37</h1>
Keys to consumer internet service products: usability, personas, scalability, availability, customer support, privacy and data protection, viral marketing, globalization, gentle deplyment, and community managment.<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 38</h1>
Keys to enterprise products are usability, working products, ignoring specials, using charter user programs, desigining for the sales channel, customer versus user, product installation, configuring, customizing, and integrating prodducts to customer's environment, providing updates, and focusing sales on product (not relationship with sales)<br>
<br>
<h1>Chapter 39</h1>
"One of the biggest mistakes platform product managers make is in the prioritization of the three constituencies. Developers are the most vocal group and the easiest for the company to relate to, so they usually get considered first.  The application provider is the one writing the check, so they come close behind.  But the end-user is the often so far removed from the platofrm provider that they rarely interact directly.  Unfortunately, this is precisely the reverse of what's needed.  It is a big (but common) mistake to optimize for developers over the end-user."<br>
<br>
