Chapter 01
==========

The Product Mangers decide whether or not an idea is worth persuing. UX
designers focus on usability, Project Managers manage projects,
Engineers make shit.

Chapter 02
==========

Separate the roles of marketing and product management, otherwise bad
things will happen. Marketters tell the world about the product; product
managers decide what the world needs.

Chapter 03
==========

Traits of good Project Managers:
Sense of urgency, framers, clear thinking, data driven, decisiveness,
judgment, attitude.

Chapter 04
==========

These roles are needed for a good user experience:
Interaction design, visual design, rapid prototyping, usability testing.

Chapter 05
==========

Engineers need to know how to build the product right; product managment
needs to know what product to build. Avoid rewriting by giving
"headroom" to engineers.

Chapter 06
==========

Most great product managers are usually right under your nose, under a
different title. They shouldn't have too much domain experience,
otherwise they become alienated from their target market.

Chapter 07
==========

It takes about three months of hard learning for a product manager to be
entrusted with the direction of project. The head of product managment
defines the product vision and works with the product managers to
deliver on this vision.

Chapter 08
==========

Product managers should focus on what users want, providing those users
with a solution that the product managers believe to be best; most users
do not know how to best solve the problems they have.

Chapter 09
==========

Good product managers are quite hard to find, because their often the
smartest people around. Because their smart, they often intimate those
above them.

Chapter 10
==========

Managing managers can be tricky; be lean, bro.

Chapter 11
==========

Don't be afraid to trying improving an existing product. Sit down and
uderstand the product and the users.

Chapter 12
==========

Figure out what to build, then build it. Make sure you make the mental
shift from planning -> execution.

Chapter 13
==========

Decide what's important for you, what is strategic, and what is
fundamental. Principles transcend features. Be specific about your
principles; don't be generic.

Chapter 14
==========

Have a product council. The product council makes timely and productive
decisions.

Chapter 15
==========

Too foo references means that your idea is probably bad, or is too
special and won't be generally useful. Make sure to have direct contact
with customers so as to deeply understand their needs.

Chapter 16
==========

Customers don't know what's possible; most of them have no idea about
the enabling technologies involved. Customers don't know what they want.
It's very hard to envision the solution you want without seeing it
first.

Chapter 17
==========

Develop a "persona" - an archetype description of your users.

Chapter 18
==========

Don't use length spec documents; create hi-fidelity prototypes.

Chapter 19
==========

User experience design and implementation should not be done in
parallel. Create a working (but throw away) prototype and design first,
then implement.

Chapter 20
==========

Instead of prioritizing features and leaping into implementation,
identify the minimum viable product, and implement a prototype.

Chapter 21
==========

Use feasability testing, usability testing and value testing to verify
the value of the product.

Chapter 22
==========

Testing your idea withs with real users is the single most important
activity in the job of a product manager.

Chapter 23
==========

Focus on making existing features better. User metrics to determine
where users are dropping of, and try tweaking those areas of your
product.

Chapter 24
==========

Don't release changes that annoy the user. Try deploying regionally to
minimize damage.

Chapter 25
==========

Be prepared to make changes immediately after launch. Don't get caught
with your pants down.

Chapter 26
==========

Sprints aren't prototypes. Actually create a minimal prototype. Make
sure the firm you chose to work with understands how to work with
product managers in the transition to agile.

Chapter 27
==========

Waterfall sucks, but you can stop the bleeding a bit by realizing that
changes are going to be costly, and that validation will happen way to
late in the process unless a prototype was created first.

Chapter 28
==========

Startup founders should higher product managers and interaction
designers, instead of trying to be both and being good at neither.

Chapter 29
==========

Create skunk works projects to sidestep the need for permission to
inivate.

Chapter 30
==========

Bigger companies have more to lose, and are therfore more risk averse.
Be mindful of this when trying to inovate and succeed.

Chapter 31
==========

Hardware -> software -> user experience -> emotion.

Chapter 32
==========

Don't give into creating specials. Users don't know shit and will derail
you from making a great product.

Chapter 33
==========

There are many opportunities to improve upon existing shitty products.

Chapter 34
==========

Identify the emotions that would drive your potential customers to
purchase your product, and fulfill those things.

Chapter 35
==========

Identify the emotional predispositions of your target market. Don't
mistake Lovers for Irrationals.


Chapter 36
==========

Don't confuse usability and aesthetics. You need both, but they're not
the same thing.

Chapter 37
==========

Use a slew of techniques to build your product. Web based products can
be easily tested quickly, so go cray-cray.

Chapter 38
==========

Enterprise software typically blows, so do all the smart things to make
it suck less. Er, blow less. Whatevs.

Chapter 39
==========

Platforms should enable end users, not the developers.

Chapter 40
==========

Ummm... This is just a recap of the preceeding 39 chapters, dawg.

Chapter 41
==========

Product managers need to worry about 10 things. No more, no less. Can
you dig it?
