### Chapter 1

The goal of a startup is to figure out the right thing to build—the thing
customers want and will pay for—as quickly as possible.

### Chapter 2

Startups also have a true north, a destination in mind: creating a thriving and
world-changing business. I call that a startup’s vision.

### Chapter 3

A startup is a human institution designed to create a new product or service
under conditions of extreme uncertainty.

### Chapter 4

When you have five hundred tests you’re running, then everybody’s ideas can run.
And then you create entrepreneurs who run and learn and can retest and relearn
as opposed to a society of politicians.

### Chapter 5

It’s moving leaders from playing Caesar with their thumbs up and down on every
idea to—instead—putting in the culture and the systems so that teams can move
and innovate at the speed of the experimentation system.

### Chapter 6

Lean thinking defines value as providing benefit to the customer; anything else
is waste.

### Chapter 7

Upon completing the Build-Measure-Learn loop, we confront the most difficult
question any entrepreneur faces: whether to pivot the original strategy or
persevere.

### Chapter 8

An example would be a business that grows through continuous fund-raising from
investors and lots of paid advertising but does not develop a value-creating
product.

### Chapter 9

The goal of such early contact with customers is not to gain definitive answers.
Instead, it is to clarify at a basic, coarse level that we understand our
potential customer and what problems they have.

### Chapter 10

Yet because of the way design agencies traditionally have been compensated, all
this work culminates in a monolithic deliverable to the client. All of a sudden,
the rapid learning and experimentation stops; the assumption is that the
designers have learned all there is to know.

### Chapter 11

Early adopters use their imagination to fill in what a product is missing. They
prefer that state of affairs, because what they care about above all is being
the first to use or adopt a new product or technology.

### Chapter 12

As you consider building your own minimum viable product, let this simple rule
suffice: remove any feature, process, or effort that does not contribute
directly to the learning you seek.

