# Chapter 1

Central Idea: we need to shift from thinking of startups as frail
compainies driven by a brilliant idea to seeing them as "experimentation
engines" who work methodically to find something of value.

# Chapter 2

Startups inherently deal with uncertainty and with the shaky process of
invention, but this doesn't exempt them from using "management" techniques to standardize and monitor their progress. 

# Chapter 3

Ries' experience with IMVU shows how far customers' perceived barriers
to entry can be from what product managers/startup-folk expect them to
be (in this case it was the perceived barrier of learning a new IM
client). This is one of many lessons in the book about never taking your
assumptions at face value and not "patronizing the customer."

# Chapter 4

"Success is not delivering a feature; success is learning how to solve
the customer's problem."

# Chapter 5 

Ries' points re. Facebook were a good lesson in studying the approach
that a successful startup takes rather than the literal actions. (i.e.
you shouldn't take away that "startups should not charge money in the
early days," but rather you should look at the approach of innovation
that they take)

# Chapter 6

Fortunately for startup-folk, the kingdom of tech-nerdery provides us
with an ample supply of customer guinea pigs in the form of "early
adopters." Use these customers to test your products.

# Chapter 7 

The only metric that matters is changing customer behavior in the
direction you want. This should be your primary concern in evaluating a
strategy.

# Chapter 8

The notion of "pivoting" gives an important framework for evaluating
progress and altering course as needed. In the context of a lean
startup, this is how you can combine the constant need to innovate with
the need to measure and evaluate your progress.

# Chapter 9

The notion of shortening your time-to-feedback is at the core of the
lean startup. In manufacturing, people try to do this by reducing the
batch size that is made before evaluating; the equivalent for us is
reducing the batch size of new experiments that we perform on our
product.

# Chapter 10

Sustainable Growth: "New customers come from the actions of past
customers." -- companies that focus on expanding organically like this
will have a natural growth pattern that is not prone to sudden collapse
a la Dot-Com bubble.

# Chapter 11

With "adaptive organization," Ries outlines a method for applying the
same lean methods that he discusses for products to structuring his
organization. Maybe hungry academy is not a perfect example since it's a
little top-down, but it's an interesting model for the mentorship aspect
that may start soon.

# Chapter 12

The _Shusa_ model that Ries brings from Toyota seems like an interesting
idea to combine the notions of craftsmanship that we might bring in from
books like _Pragmatic Programmer_ with the more scientific, analytical
process that Ries details for measuring product progress.
